# Config

You can create a global config file at `~/.config/shell-ask/config.json`, or a local config file at `./shell-ask.json` in a folder where you want to run Shell Ask.

## Example

In fact this file is generated by the `gen-config-md` command defined in the [shell-ask.json](../shell-ask.json) for this project.

## Properties

### `default_model` (optional)

- **Type:** `string`
- **Description:** Specifies the default AI model to be used.

### `openai_api_key` (optional)

- **Type:** `string`
- **Description:** The API key for accessing OpenAI services.
- **Default:** `process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY`

### `openai_api_url` (optional)

- **Type:** `string`
- **Description:** The URL for the OpenAI API.
- **Default:** `process.env.OPENAI_API_URL`

### `gemini_api_key` (optional)

- **Type:** `string`
- **Description:** The API key for accessing Gemini services.
- **Default:** `process.env.GEMINI_API_KEY`

### `gemini_api_url` (optional)

- **Type:** `string`
- **Description:** The URL for the Gemini (Google Gen AI) API.
- **Default:** `process.env.GEMINI_API_URL`

### `anthropic_api_key` (optional)

- **Type:** `string`
- **Description:** The API key for accessing Anthropic services.
- **Default:** `process.env.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`

### `commands` (optional)

- **Type:** `AICommand[]`
- **Description:** A list of AI commands that can be executed. Each command is defined by the `AICommand` type.

## AICommand Type

The `AICommand` type defines the structure of an AI command that can be executed. Below are the properties of the `AICommand` type.

### Properties

#### `command`

- **Type:** `string`
- **Description:** The CLI command to be executed.

#### `example` (optional)

- **Type:** `string`
- **Description:** An example to show in CLI help.

#### `description` (optional)

- **Type:** `string`
- **Description:** A description of the command to be shown in CLI help.

#### `variables` (optional)

- **Type:** `Record<string, AICommandVariable>`
- **Description:** A record of variables that the command can use. Each variable is defined by the `AICommandVariable` type.

#### `prompt`

- **Type:** `string`
- **Description:** The prompt to send to the AI model.

#### `require_stdin` (optional)

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Description:** Indicates whether the command requires piping output from another program to Shell Ask.

## AICommandVariable Type

The `AICommandVariable` type defines the structure of a variable that can be used in an AI command. Below are the possible types of `AICommandVariable`.

### Types

#### Shell Command

- **Type:** `string`
- **Description:** A shell command to run, the output of which will be used as the variable value.

#### Input

- **Type:** `{ type: "input"; message: string }`
- **Description:** Gets text input from the user.
  - `type`: Must be `"input"`.
  - `message`: The message to show to the user.

#### Select

- **Type:** `{ type: "select"; message: string; choices: { value: string; title: string }[] }`
- **Description:** Gets a choice from the user.
  - `type`: Must be `"select"`.
  - `message`: The message to show to the user.
  - `choices`: An array of choice objects, each containing:
    - `value`: The value of the choice.
    - `title`: The title of the choice to be displayed to the user.
